On the first day you will get up from bed and brush your teeth with
too much toothpaste and get dressed in clothes you never enjoyed
wearing. You will walk to school and stare at the cracks in the
sidewalk and the grass jutting out at the sides. The ants will be
running along where concrete meets pavement, because that will be
the thing to do. There is so much there that you have never noticed the
first time around.

On the second day you will get home from school and sit in bed for
several minutes until they reach seventeen and the forty-first
second. You will claw at your desk for a pencil, idly trace lines into
the journal you keep under your pillow, and try not to think about
the burning in your eyes. Briefly, you will consider scanning the
room for your phone and wonder if they'd miss you. You will
instead clutch the pencil tighter and do your homework, because
that will be the thing to do. You feel as though your presence is a
burden and that this is all you will ever be.

On the third day you will think about killing yourself tomorrow.
Maybe the day after tomorrow. Maybe even the day after that. You
don't think you can make it to the fourth, much less fourteenth.
You will rake your hands through your hair and, against your better
judgment, pick up the blade instead of the pen. Instead of word
after word it will leave cut after cut, and the temporary relief and
euphoria will only be chased by that sickness in your gut getting
heavier. You will clean yourself up and act like nothing happened,
because that will be the thing to do. It will not change anything, it
has never changed anything.

On the fourth day you will break your first promise to your mother
and smoke a cigarette. The kids behind the school offered you one,
and with their eyes on you, staring, watching, waiting, you could
only choke on your tongue in response. It reminded you of the way
your parents smoked, the way the ashtray by the window smelled
and how the smoke gave you an asthma attack when you were
seven. In the end, you will take one and smoke with them, because
that will be the thing to do. Unlike you, they're too cowardly to jump,
so they kill themselves a little every day.

On the fifth day you will stay home, because it is the weekend. The
comfort of your bed sticks tight to your skin and your eyes feel like
they have been sewn shut. A notification will ring off your phone,
or maybe it's an alarm. All the same, at this point, because
everything means the same thing: get up. You will turn it over from
where it lies face-down on your pillow, barely even look up, and set
it back down. Eventually, you will get up, because that will be the
thing to do. Comfort is running thin, and you're beginning to find
that it doesn't feel like it used to.

On the sixth day your patience will run thin. Your temper will get
worse and you'll think, maybe it is the damn phones. When your
mother comes up to your room and tells you in that comforting,
soft voice, your father and I are getting a divorce, there is nothing
left to feel at all. Your eyes will go blank and your thoughts will
quiet down for a moment, the prime example of love early on in
your life falling apart with eight simple words. You will want to
scream and throw the lamp sitting next to you on the bedside
cabinet, but instead you will hug her and tell her you love her,
because that will be the thing to do. Please be gentle, it is her first
time living too.

On the seventh day you will fall asleep in class. The light fixture
overhead could fall at the right angle and kill you. You've thought
about that, hoped for it, even, but rested your head on your arms
and shut your eyes anyway. The teacher's calls will jerk you awake
and the class' giggles will ring in your ears for the rest of the day. She
will ask you a question that you don't know how to answer, for
everything in your mind is rattled and mismatched and missing,
and you will sit silently until she gets frustrated and gives you
detention. Every piece of your mind, as frazzled as it is, will tell you
to say something back, ask for help, beg her to be kinder, but you
will say nothing, because that will be the thing to do. She will skip
by your desk every day after you're dead, and every time her heart
will tug with wonder at how she never noticed.

On the eighth day before you kill yourself you will cry. It will be
loud and ugly and your body will wither and shake with sobs. You
will crumple into a fetal position and turn your head away from
your mother as she bursts into your room. You haven't cried like
this before, and haven't cried at all in a very long time. Her
confusion will dissolve into pity and she will hold you tight and try
to comfort you as she did before, only you are not a child anymore.
Every muscle in your body will tense and you will try to rid yourself
of her and she will hold on anyway, because that will be the thing to
do. Despite everything, you are still her child, the object of her love,
and always will be.

On the ninth day you will scroll endlessly through social media
hoping for something, anything, to give you a glimpse of serotonin.
You'll find a video of a cat and consider sending it to your sister, but
the two of you don't talk anymore. The two of you haven't talked
in a while. You'll get off the app and open up a writing document
instead. You will type and type and type, but the words are
incoherent and dizzy on the screen. You will keep writing anyway,
trying to chase out any feelings of negativity, but will instead hollow
yourself to not feel a thing. You will get up and go on with your day,
because that will be the thing to do. You can never write like you
used to, the only thing you are good for now is to suffer.

On the tenth day your school will hold an assembly about mental
health. Your friends will all sit together with one spot too little and
you will move to the front row instead. It doesn't bother you now.
It's happened too many times to. They will bring in a speaker and
he will move as he talks and makes grand gestures with both hands.
He will wear a black t-shirt and jeans and half the school won't be
paying him any mind. You'll listen, because there's not much else to
do except listen to the kid next to you breathing through their
mouth and sniffling every twelve seconds. Eventually they will let
you go and you will stand up and walk to the door and hesitate.
There will be a table full of flyers for those who can anonymously
reach out and talk. Briefly, your hand will hover over it, but you will
quickly retract it and walk away, because that will be the thing to
do. It is not cowardly to need help or to ask for it, and being ill does
not mean you are lesser.

On the eleventh day you will type 'how to kill yourself into your
browser. Instead of anything helpful, you will find the suicide and
crisis lifeline. After what feels like hours of hesitation, you will
slowly click on their website and sign up for a chat with someone.
You will tell this person that you are thinking of death and they will
respond in a friendly-enough, blatantly trained way that seems to
invalidate all the grotesqueness of struggle. You will get more and
more worked up and then they will ask a question that has you
shaking. You will shut off your phone and forget the conversation,
because that will be the thing to do. The person's name was Nox, by
the way, and they'll be left wondering if you're alive for the rest of
their life.

On the twelfth day someone close to you will leave unexpectedly.
It will be for reasons you cannot understand and you will beg them to
stay. They will leave anyway, and then you promise to yourself that
you will never stoop as low as you did in that moment just to please
others. Sooner or later, though, you will break that vow, because
you are incapable of hurting anyone but yourself. You will take the
blade for the second time in these two weeks, because that will be
the thing to do. You always hurt yourself in the end, and your
self-hate is your most incurable disease.

On the thirteenth day you will go to a carnival and eat popcorn and
watch the clowns jibber and jibe at one another. You were supposed
to go with your friends, but they ran off and you don't know where
they went. You will win a game and get a big teddy bear but give it
to the kid that's been eyeing it all day. You will never forget the
smile on their face and a hurried, backwater 'thank you' as they run
off to their parents. You will try to not let it make you sick, only
moving on and continuing your day, because that will be the thing
to do. That kid will never know you died, and you will never be able
to experience a moment like that again.

On the fourteenth day before you kill yourself you will wake up
early and make your bed for the first time in months. You will
shower in cold water, brush your teeth twice, and get dressed in
clothes you've always liked. You will say goodbye to your pet and
walk to school. On the way, you will see ants walking along the
sidewalk cracks and a pencil on the street. You will see a razor blade
in the grass of someone's lawn and a cigarette butt on the concrete
of the driveway. You will get tired and almost fall asleep where you
stand, snapped awake by the thought of your parents. What was
and what will never be, not anymore. Your thoughts won't make
sense and you will want to cry, but instead you will take your phone
from your pocket and scroll as you walk. You'll send that cat video
to your sister and think of the man from the assembly. You will
think about how he probably would've gotten along with Nox. You
will think of how everyone leaves and how sometimes being a child
and having a giant teddy bear is the greatest feeling in the world.

On the fourteenth day before you kill yourself you will go to school
and sit through math and talk to one or two people in English.
They seem to enjoy your company but you really can't be sure, so
you get up and leave the instant the bell rings and ignore any other
conversation they try to share with you.

On the fourteenth day before you kill yourself you I will walk home,
slower this time, and sit on your bed for an hour. Not lying, not
sleeping, just sitting, sitting and wondering. You will eventually
reach for a sheet of paper and a pen, and will write. You will write
about struggle, about momentary triumph, about all that there has
ever been instead of all that there will be. You will be fixed and set
the paper down and try not to cry but the tears are already boiling
over. You will set the pen down.

On the fourteenth day before you kill yourself you will leave your
house, the note on your bed, and bring nothing with you but the
clothes on your back and the weight in your chest. You will walk
and walk and walk until you find something of suitable height.

On the fourteenth day before you kill yourself you will stand on
firm concrete, staring down at something beyond and below. The
thoughts aren't so dizzy anymore, only a chorus of jump and run.
You won't be sure which one is louder. The view from above is
both a bone-chilling nightmare and a simple haze of dreams. Your
foot will reach the edge, your whole body shaking with nerves and
incoherence, and you will exhale once. Twice.

On the fourteenth day before you kill yourself you will jump before
you can figure out why you shouldn't. You will go as quickly and
quietly as you thought you would, and they won't find your body
until the next morning. You will forget yourself as you fall, and you
will die before you can second-guess it. You will leave this world
thinking of your mother, because that will be the thing to do. There
are no words of comfort where you are going, only the wind whipping
across your face.

The fourteen days are over. There is no reason left to perform. The
Lights are off and the air is cold and wet. Comfort is a thing of the
past, and you can’t remember the name of your best friend
anymore. Everything hurts, but you’re still so numb.

What is there anymore?

The stage is empty. There’s no one left. They’re all gone, or maybe
you are.

There were reasons to stay.

Your mother would wonder what she did wrong. Her child, her
precious child, taken from her in one fell swoop. She wasn’t the best
anyone could have asked for, but she was yours, wasn’t she? What
you were capable of rather than who you are was never what
mattered. Both her and I are sorry you evere had to believe that your
achievements were worth more than yourself.

Your sister would never be the same. She would grow around it, but
there would always be this you-shaped hole by her heart, just
around the jut of her ribcafe. She will have kids. They’ll look through
old family photos and ask who you are. She will try not to burst into
tears.

You woudn’t be the same, either. You’d be gone.

No more laughter.
No more tears.
No more failing tests,
Or binge-watching a new TV show,
Or experiencing a crippling guilt/grief/all of the above,
Or jumping on leaves during autumn like a child in a muddy
puddle.

On the fifteenth day you wake up in bed. Everything hurts and
your eyes are sticky. You sit up, expecting unfamiliarity, only to find
your room staring back at you Your stuffed animals are still where
you left them. The note on your desk is just as prominent as before.
You will take a breath and situate yourself, because that will be the
thing to do. Was it all a dream?

On the fifteenth day you will walk out of your room and find you
mother and tell her you love her before she can get a word in. You
will shake and sob into her arms and she will ask you what is wrong
and the only thing you can think of is that you don’t want to be ill
anymore, because that will be the thing to do. Your mother will
never fully understand you, but she doesn’t need to do that to love you.

On the fifteenth day you will eat breakfast after months of skipping
it and it will be the best thing you have ever tased. You will get to
school on time and say good morning to the teacher as you sit
down, because that will be the thing to do. The class will seem a
whole lot more interesting, and you’ll understand it, if only briefly.

On the fifteenth day you will sit with new people at lunch and they
will laugh at your joke. It will be the most loved you have felt in a
long time. You will let them when they try to stay in your life,
because that will be the thing to do. You never needed to push people
away , your illness does not make you unloveable.

On the sixteenth day you will write something meaningful and
stare at it hours after the last word indented itself to the paper. You
will find more beauty in what you have not yet discovered. You will
keep writing, because that will be the thing to do. Discover words
that haven’t been written. Know them like honey on your tongue and
love them just as sweetly
 
On the nineteenth day you’ll forget that you were counting in the
first place, because that will be the thing to do. The days will get
better. The days will get better. The days will get better.

On the twenty-first day you will laugh so hard you fall over. One of
your friends will tell a joke and you will just keel over, because that
will be the thing to do. It really wasn’t that funny, but it was enough
for you. Are you more than enough for yourself?

On the fiftieth day you will find a new hobby. It’s never interested
you before, and you’re not very good at it, but surprisingly, you
don’t even care. Instead of spiraling into believing yourself as
Worthless, you only promise to get better at it, because that will be
the thing to do. You can't break a promise, especially not to yourself.
You’ll have to stay to get good at it, You’ll have to stay.

On the seventy-second day you will experience heartbreak again.
You will wonder what if worth it and what you’re even doing here.
Life will continue to go on. The days will still pass, the seconds still
ticking by, and you will live through it, because that will be the
thing to do. Isn’t tragedy what makes life worth living, too? You can’t
Experience pain when you’re gone. You can’t experience anything.

On the ninety-first day you will blow out your birthday candles and
Wish for peace. The days are still difficult- some better than
others- but isnt that the point? You made it another year. You
will do it again, because that will be the thing to do. You’re still here.
You’re still here, and that’s a greater accomplishment than you think.
I’m proud of you, truly.

On the two-hundred-and-thirty-sixth day something inside you will
heal. Or maybe that was on the two-hundred-and-thirty-fifth day.
You didn’t notice until now- that wide, gaping hole in your chest
isn’t there anymore. And that’s okay. You will heal eventually,
because that will be the thing to do. Healing does not invalidate
what you went through. Healing does not make it all for nothing.

Someday, the countdown will be nothing but a number. You will
learn to love again. The guilt won’t claw and grasp at your ankles
Anymore. The pain will ebb away and you will forget the taste of
Agony on your tongue. You will learn to live. Because that will be the
thing to do.

Your seven minutes expire, 
glimpses of a future that should have been yours fade away, 
Yet you opt for early departure, and that's acceptable. 
For the choice was never yours, was it?

“let the days pass until you forget that they’re supposed to.
there is beauty in life that is not worth giving up.”

dedicated to my long lost,
frieda
